Whether you're in school or not, you're probably under a lot of pressure.
Not just from all the studying and those piles of homework.
But pressure from other kids.
Pressure to have sex.
Or cheat. Or maybe it's to smoke. Or take drugs.
Of course, you know what they want you to do is bad.
But at times you may feel like you're missing out if you don't join them.
You're not alone.
Since the world began, young people have been dealing with peer pressure.
But it doesn't mean you have to give in.
The Bible has some good advice.
Exodus 23-2 tells us not to just follow after the crowd.
In other words, don't do something just because everyone else is doing it.
Instead, be your own person.
How do you get the strength to stand up to peer pressure?
Here are four steps that can help.
First, keep on the lookout for moral dangers.
And identify any situations where you might be pressured to do something wrong.
If you see trouble coming your way,
don't walk right into it, find another route, and avoid the problem.
The second step.
Stop and take the time to think.
Think about the consequences before you give in to peer pressure.
In Proverbs 14-15, the Bible says,
smart people watch their step.
So don't just jump in and do what others say.
It may be hard to do if you're trying to fit in.
But that's the time to use your imagination.
How will I feel later if I give in?
What might be the outcome?
How might my actions affect others that care about me the most?
Step 3. You need to plan ahead.
Proverbs 24-5 says that a person who has knowledge increases his power.
If you know exactly why you're saying no to something,
why something is bad, it can give you the strength to say no.
Now the fourth step.
Take action.
No, you don't have to give your peers a lecture.
Just say no, clearly and confidently.
You may be surprised at their reaction.
Each time you take a stand for what you know is right,
you get stronger and stronger.
And that makes it easier to resist the pressure the next time.
You don't need to be rude,
but you could give a reason why you wouldn't want to join in.
And if they do keep pressuring you, just remember this.
Giving in to peer pressure is kind of like being turned into a puppet
with your peers pulling the strings.
You can't hide from peer pressure,
but you can stand up to it.
Remember to keep on the lookout.
Think about the consequences.
Plan ahead and take action.
Facing up to peer pressure can be scary at times.
But when you do, you show the decisions you make really are your own.